# Kubernetes

- Kubernetes is an open-source platform designed to automate deploying, scaling, and operating application containers.

## Pods

- A pod is the smallest deployable unit in Kubernetes.
- Has one (most common) or more containers, storage resources, a unique network IP, and options that govern how the container(s) should run.
- Represents a single instance of a running process in your cluster.

### Lifecycle

- As the containers, a pod is efemeral. After killed, it will not be restored.

1. **Pending**: The pod has been accepted by the Kubernetes system, but one or more of the containers has not been set up.

- Includes scaling time and pulling images.

2. **Running**: The pod has been bound to a node, and all of the containers have been created.

3. **Succeeded**: All containers in the pod have terminated in success, and will not be restarted.

4. **Failed**: All containers in the pod have terminated, and at least one container has terminated in failure. A container "fails" if it exits with a non-zero status.

5. **Unknown**: The state of the pod cannot be determined. This phase typically occurs due to an error in communicating with the node where the pod should be running.

## Nodes

- A node is a worker machine in Kubernetes, where pods are scheduled. It may be a VM or physical machine, depending on the cluster.
- The pods can change nodes, but the node is fixed.

## Cluster

- A cluster is a set of VMs or physical machines that contains nodes to run containerized applications.

## Modes (Single-Node vs Cluster)

- Single-Node: All components run on the same node.
- Cluster: Components are distributed across multiple nodes (Default).
  - **Master Node**: The master node is responsible for managing the cluster.
  - **Worker Node**: The worker node is responsible for running the pods.

## Base Node Structure

- **Kubeadm**: A tool to automate the installation of Kubernetes clusters.
- **Kubelet**: An agent that runs on each node in the cluster. It makes sure that containers are running in a pod. Intermediates communication between API Server and the container runtime.
- **Kubectl**: A command-line tool that allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. It is used to deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, and view logs.
- **Container Runtime**: The software that is responsible for running containers. Often Docker, but can be: containerd, CRI-O, etc.

### Master Node

- Can be one or more, depending on the cluster.
- **Control Plane**: The control plane manages the worker nodes and the pods in the cluster.
  - **etcd**: Consistent and highly-available key value store used as Kubernetes' backing store for all cluster data about the cluster state.
  - **API Server**: Provides the Kubernetes services. Is a REST API. Validates and configures data for the API objects, that include pods, services, replication controllers, and others.
  - **Controller Manager**: Monitors the state of the cluster. Replicates components, monitors worker nodes, deal with node failures, etc.
  - **Scheduler**: Assigns pods to nodes.
