# Volumes

- Problem: data persistence on pods
  - Files on Containers are ephemeral
  - Pods on Cluster are ephemeral
  - Sharing data between containers
- Solution: Volumes
  - Types: emptyDir, hostPath, nfs, etc.
  - Ephemeral Volume
  - Persistent Volume (PV)
  - Persistent Volume Claim (PVC)
  - Storage Class (SC)
- Volume is a directory accessible to all containers in a pod, has the same lifecycle as the pod
- The files can be mounted outside the pod for, if the pod or the container is deleted, the files are still available

# Types

- **Epemeral Volume**: created when the pod is created, deleted when the pod is deleted. Survives container restarts.
- **Persistent Volume (PV)**: created by the cluster administrator outside the pod, survives pod and node deletion.
- **EmptyDir**: created when a pod is assigned to a node, deleted when the pod is deleted.
- **HostPath**: mounts a file or directory from the host node's filesystem into your pod.
- **gcePersistentDisk**: mounts a Google Compute Engine disk into your pod.
- **awsElasticBlockStore**: mounts an AWS EBS volume into your pod.
- **azureDiskVolume**: mounts an Azure Data Disk into your pod.
- **gitRepo**: mounts a git repository into your pod.
- Others: nfs, iscsi, cinder, cephfs, flocker, glusterfs, quobyte, rbd, vsphereVolume, azureFile, photonPersistentDisk, portworxVolume, scaleIO, storageos, etc.

# EmptyDir

- Created in a deployment
- Structure:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1 # API version for the deployment
kind: Deployment # Type of Kubernetes resource
metadata:
  name: frontend-volume # Name of the deployment
  labels:
    app: frontend-volume-app # Labels for the deployment
spec:
  replicas: 1 # Number of pod replicas
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      component: aspnet # Selector to match pods with this label
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        component: aspnet # Labels for the pod template
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: container-volume # Name of the container
          image: renanrgarcia/pizzafrontend:latest # Container image
          imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent # Image pull policy
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80 # Port exposed by the container
          volumeMounts:
            - name: myvolume # Name of the volume to mount
              mountPath: "/app/myvolume" # Path inside the container where the volume is mounted
      volumes:
        - name: myvolume # Name of the volume
          emptyDir: {} # Type of volume (emptyDir)
```

- `kubectl apply -f frontend-volume.yaml`
- `kubectl describe pod frontend-volume-xxxxx`
- `kubectl exec -it frontend-volume-xxxxx -- /bin/bash` > `echo 'testing volume' > test.txt`: create a file in the volume
- `kubectl exec frontend-volume-xxxxx -c <container> -- bin/sh -c "kill 1"`: kill container and verify file is still there
- `kubectl delete pod frontend-volume-xxxxx`: kill pod and verify file is gone
