# Persistent Volume (PV)

- It's an abstraction for the physical storage connected to the cluster
- A Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) is a request for storage by a user, it's a request for a PV.
  - Then, the pod reclaims any PV that matches the PVC requirements, such as size, access mode, etc.
- If there's no PV that matches the PVC, the Storage Class dynamically provisions a PV that matches the PVC requirements.
  - Storage Class is an object that contains the parameters and provisioner pre-defined and stores data about how to create a PV to a pod.

## Static Provisioning

- Object: PersistentVolume
- The cluster administrator provides a pool of PVs, and the user selects the PV that matches the PVC requirements.
- After the user creates the PVC, the pod binds to the PV.

## Dynamic Provisioning

- Object: PersistentVolumeClaim
- This is the default method for provisioning storage in Kubernetes.
- The user creates a PVC, and the Storage Class dynamically provisions a PV that matches the PVC requirements.

## Global vision

- Pods > PVC > PV > Storage Class (PV Controller) > Storage Provider

## PV and PVC Lifecycle

- **Provisioning**: PV is created statically by the cluster administrator or dynamically by the Storage Class.
- **Binding**: PVC binds to a PV that matches the PVC requirements.
- **Using**: Pod uses the PVC to mount the PV.
- **Reclaiming**: PV is recovered, keeping it available for future use or deleting it directly on the storage provider.

## PV Status

- **Available**: PV is available to be claimed by a PVC.
- **Bound**: PV is bound to a PVC.
- **Released**: Claim is deleted, but the PV is still bound to the PVC, not the cluster.
- **Failed**: PV is not available.

## PV Structure

```yaml - pv1.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: aspnet-pv
  labels:
    type: local-pv # Label to match the PVC
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 5Mi
  volumeMode: Filesystem
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Recycle
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  hostPath:
    path: "/app/myvolume"
  storageClassName: manual
```

```yaml - pvc1.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: aspnet-pvc
  labels:
    type: local-pvc # Label to match the Pod
spec:
  storageClassName: manual
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 5Mi
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      type: local-pv # Label to match the PV
```

```yaml - pod1.yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: aspnet-pod
  labels:
    type: aspnet-pod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: aspn-container
      image: renanrgarcia/pizzafrontend:latest
      ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          name: "frontend-mvc"
      volumeMounts:
        - name: aspn-storage
          mountPath: "/app/myvolume"
  volumes:
    - name: aspn-storage
      persistentVolumeClaim:
        claimName: aspnet-pvc # Label to match the PVC
```

### PV Configs

- volumeMode
  - Block: raw block device
  - Filesystem: directory (default)
- accessModes
  - ReadWriteOnce - RWO: can be mounted as read-write by a single node, all pods in this node can read and write
  - ReadOnlyMany - ROX: can be mounted as read-only by many nodes
  - ReadWriteMany - RWX: can be mounted as read-write by many nodes
  - ReadWriteOncePod - RWOP: can be mounted as read-write by a single pod
- persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy
  - Retain: keeps the PV for manual reclamation. The PV is not deleted after the PVC is deleted. Can exit on the cluster and be considered "released".
  - Recycle: deletes the contents of the PV and makes it available for a new claim.
  - Delete: deletes the associated storage.

