# Ambient Configuration

- `Docker`
- `minikube`: A tool that makes it easy to run Kubernetes locally.
- `kubectl`: A command-line tool that allows you to run commands against Kubernetes clusters. It is used to deploy applications, inspect and manage cluster resources, and view logs.

## Alternatives

- `kind`: Kubernetes IN Docker. A tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”.
- `k3d`: A tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”.
- `k3s`: A lightweight Kubernetes distribution.
- `kubeadm`: A tool to automate the installation of Kubernetes clusters (Default on Kubernetes documentation, but to heavy).

## miniKube

- Creates a cluster with a single node on a virtual machine.
- Pros: Easy to install and use. Good for learning and development.
- Cons: Limited to a single node and initial setup can be slow.

### miniKube Commands

- `minikube start`: Start the cluster.
- `minikube status`: Check the status of the cluster.
- `minikube stop`: Stop the cluster.

### kubectl Commands

- `kubectl cluster-info`: Display addresses of the master and services.

# Kubernetes - Interaction modes

- **Imperative**: Directly tells Kubernetes what to do using the `kubectl` command.
  - Tells Kubernetes to do something. Ideal to learning, testing, and debugging.
  - Ex: `kubectl run nginx --image nginx`
- **Declarative**: Tells Kubernetes what you want to achieve with YAML (or JSON) files, called manifests. Uses the `kubectl apply` command.
  - Describes the desired state of the system. Ideal for production environments, given the control and predictability.
  - Ex: `kubectl apply -f newpod.yaml`

## Manifests Structure

- Contains deployments, services, pods, namespaces, replicasets, configmaps, secrets, nodes, etc.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1 # Indicates the Kubernetes API version to create the object.

kind: Pod # Indicates the type of object to create. Can be: Pod, Service, Deployment, ReplicaSet, Namespace, etc.

metadata: # Contains the object's metadata.
  name: mypod # Name of the object.

spec: # Contains the object's specification.
  containers: # Contains the list of containers to run in the pod.
    - name: cont-nginx # Name of the container.
      image: nginx # Image to use.
      ports: # List of ports to expose.
        - containerPort: 80 # Port to expose.
```

### Creating a Pod

1. Imperative mode

- `kubectl run pod-nginx --image nginx`: Create a pod.
- `kubectl get all`: List all resources in the default namespace.
- `kubectl get pods`: List all pods in the default namespace.
- `kubectl get nodes`: List all nodes in the cluster.
- `kubectl describe pods`: Describe all pods in the default namespace.
- `kubectl delete pod pod-nginx`: Delete a pod.

2. Declarative mode

- `kubectl apply -f mypod.yaml`: Create a pod.
- `kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -c <container-name> -- sh`: Access the pod's shell.
