# Deployment

- `Deployment`provides declarative updates to applications (Pods) and manages `ReplicaSets`.
- Used to continuous updates and rollbacks on a running application.
- The updates on yaml files are applied directly, different from `ReplicaSet` that needs to be deleted and recreated.
- `kubectl apply -f deployment1.yaml` to create a deployment.
- `kubectl get deployments` or `kubectl get deploy` to list all deployments.
- `kubectl describe deployment nginx-deploy` to get more information about a deployment.
- `kubectl scale deployment nginx-deploy --replicas 3` to scale the number of replicas.
- `kubectl delete deployment nginx-deploy` to delete a deployment.
- `kubectl rollout undo deployment nginx-deploy -n default` to rollback to the previous version.

## Deployment Strategy

- The objective is to change or update the application without downtime, or less perceptible by the user.
- `Recreate` - Old pods are killed and new pods are created. Most used for testing.
- `RollingUpdate` - Old pods are gradually replaced by new pods. It is the default strategy.
- `Blue/Green` - Two versions of the application are running at the same time. The traffic is switched from one to another (blue to green).
- `Canary` - A small subset of users are redirected to the new version of the application. If everything is ok, the rest of the users are redirected.

## Deployment Structure

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1 # API version for the deployment
kind: Deployment # Type of Kubernetes resource
metadata:
  name: nginx-deploy # Name of the deployment
spec:
  replicas: 2 # Number of pod replicas
  strategy:
    type: RollingUpdate # Deployment strategy type
    rollingUpdate:
      maxSurge: 25% # Maximum number of pods that can be created above the desired number of pods
      maxUnavailable: 25% # Maximum number of pods that can be unavailable during the update process
  template:
    metadata:
      name: nginx-pod # Name of the pod template
      labels:
        app: nginx1 # Labels for the pod template
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: nginx-container # Name of the container
          image: nginx # Docker image for the container
          ports:
            - containerPort: 80 # Port exposed by the container
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx1 # Label selector for the pods
```
