# Service

- The IP address of the pod is dynamic and it changes every time the pod is restarted. So, if we want to access the pod using a static IP address, we can use a service.
- A service is a Kubernetes resource that provides a way to access a set of pods, using a DNS name.
- It connect a set of pods to a abstracted service name and an IP address. It allows the discovery and routing to/between the pods, from inside or outside the cluster. For example: load balancing, service discovery, etc.

## Grouping Pods

- Pods are grouped together using labels and selectors.
- Its main attributes are:
  - `Selector`: It is a label selector that determines which pods will be included in the service.
  - `ClusterIP`: It is the IP address of the service.
  - `Port`: It is the port on which the service is running.
  - `TargetPort`: It is the port on which the pods are running. Can be mapped to a different port.

## Types of Services

- `ClusterIP`: It is the default service type. It exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP. It is accessible only within the cluster.
- `NodePort`: It exposes the service on each node's IP at a static port. It is accessible from outside the cluster. Exposes an app using `NodeIP:NodePort` for every node.
- `LoadBalancer`: It exposes the service externally using a cloud provider's load balancer. It is accessible from outside the cluster. It is used when the app is running on a cloud provider. Objective: share the load between the nodes continuously, efficiently and uniformly for protecting the app.
- `ExternalName`: It maps the service to a DNS name. It is used when we want to use a service from another namespace. Returns a CNAME record with the value of the externalName field.

## Discover and Access Services

- `Cluster DNS`: It is a DNS server that is built into Kubernetes and is used to provide DNS services to the cluster. It is used to resolve the service names to the IP addresses of the pods.
  - It monitors the Kubernetes API for new services and creates a set of DNS records for each one.
- `Environment Variables`: uses `kubelet` to inject the environment variables into the container that contains the IP addresses of the services.

## Service Structure

```yaml
apiVersion: v1 # API version used to create the service
kind: Service # Specifies that this is a Service resource
metadata:
  name: webservice1 # Name of the service
  labels:
    app: webservice1 # Labels to identify the service
spec:
  type: NodePort # Type of service, exposing it on each node's IP at a static port
  ports: # If not specified, is used TCP protocol
    - port: 8080 # Port on which the service is exposed inside the cluster
      nodePort: 30163 # Static port on each node's IP to access the service
      targetPort: 80 # Port on which the pods are running
  selector:
    app: pod-service1 # Label selector to determine which pods are targeted by the service
```

- It can be created using the command `kubectl create -f service1.yaml`.
- Also, it can be created using the command `kubectl expose deployment my-deploy --name=apache-service --type=ClusterIP --port=8080 --target-port=8080`.
- `kubectl get services` or `kubectl get svc`: List all services in the default namespace.
- `kubectl describe service webservice1`: Show detailed information about the service.
- `kubectl port-forward service/webservice1 7000:8080`: Forward the service port to the local machine.
  - API Server turns into a gateway between the local machine and the Kubernetes cluster. Any traffic will be encapsulated on a HTTP connection.
