# Microservices

- Microservices are a software architecture style that structures an application as a collection of small, autonomous services, modeled around a business domain.
- Each microservice is self-contained and implements a single business capability. Microservices communicate with each other over a network, typically using HTTP or messaging protocols.

## Demomicroservice

- Create a Web API project using the ASP.NET Core Web API template.
- Create a Dockerfile in the root of the project.
- Create the image: `docker build -t demomicroservice .`
- Run the image: `docker run -it --rm -p 3000:8080 --name demomicroservicecontainer demomicroservice`
- Open a browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000/weatherforecast` to see the API in action.

## Image and Container Mongo

- `docker pull mongo`: Pull the latest MongoDB image from Docker Hub.
- `docker run -d --name catalog-mongo -p 27017:27017 mongo`: Run a MongoDB container in detached mode, mapping port 27017 on the host to port 27017 in the container.
- `docker exec -it catalog-mongo /bin/bash`: Access the MongoDB shell inside the running container.
- Commands:

```sh
mongosh
show dbs
use ProductsDb
db.createCollection("Products")
db.Products.insertOne({ name: "Product 0", price: 5.99 })
db.Products.insertMany([
  { name: "Product 1", price: 10.99 },
  { name: "Product 2", price: 20.99 },
  { name: "Product 3", price: 30.99 }
])
db.Products.find()
db.Products.deleteOne({ name: "Product 0" })
db.Products.deleteMany({})
exit
```

## Docker Compose

- `docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.override.yml up`: Start the services defined in the Docker Compose files.

## Redis

- User makes a request and start an operation envolving a shopping basket.
- The API will check if the basket is in the cache. If not, it will create a new one and store it in the cache.
- The API will then return the basket to the user.
