# Redis

- Redis - Remote Dictionary Server - In-memory data structure store, used as a database, cache, and message broker.
- Key-value store, supports various data structures like strings, hashes, lists, sets, and sorted sets.
- High performance, low latency, and high throughput.
- Supports data persistence, replication, and clustering.

## Benefits

- **In-memory datastore**: All data is stored in memory, which makes it extremely fast.
- **Data structures**: Supports various data structures like strings, hashes, lists, sets, and sorted sets.
- **Persistence/Replication**: Data can be persisted to disk and replicated across multiple Redis instances for high availability.
- **Siply/easy to use**: Simple API and easy to use with various programming languages.
- **High availability/scalability**: Supports clustering and partitioning for high availability and scalability.
- **Extensible**: Can be extended with modules to add new data types and functionality.
- **Language agnostic**: Can be used with any programming language that supports TCP/IP.

## Installation

- `docker run -d --name local-redis -p 6379:6379 redis`: Run Redis in a Docker container.
- `docker exec -it local-redis redis-cli`: Access the Redis CLI in the container: `#redis-cli`.

## Commands

- `PING`: Check if the Redis server is running. Response: `PONG`.
- `INFO`: Get information about the Redis server.
- `SET key value`: Set a key-value pair.
- `GET key`: Get the value of a key.
- `DEL key`: Delete a key.
- `incr key`: Increment the value of a key by 1.
- `decr key`: Decrement the value of a key by 1.
- `exit`: Exit the Redis CLI.

## Distributed caching

- On .net core, we can use `IDistributedCache` to cache data in Redis.
  - `Get, GetAsync`: Take a string key and return the value as a byte array.
  - `Set, SetAsync`: Take a byte array value and store it in Redis using a string key.
  - `Refresh, RefreshAsync`: Update an item in the cache and redefine its expiration time, if applicable.
- The data is serialized to a byte array before being stored in Redis and deserialized to its original type when retrieved.
- ASP.NET Core does not have a built-in distributed cache provider for Redis, but we can use the `Microsoft.Extensions.Caching.StackExchangeRedis` package to add Redis support.
- Now configure it in the `Program.cs` file.
- `builder.Services.AddStackExchangeRedisCache(options => { options.Configuration = "localhost:6379"; });`: Add Redis cache to the service collection.

```csharp # Controller
[Route("api/[controller]")]
[ApiController]
public class OrdersController : ControllerBase
{
    private readonly IDistributedCache _cache;
    private readonly NorthwindContext _context;

    public OrdersController(IDistributedCache cache, NorthwindContext context)
    {
        _cache = cache;
        _context = context;
    }

    [HttpGet("redis")]
    public async Task<IActionResult> GetAllOrdersUsingRedisCache()
    {
        var cacheKey = "ordersList";
        string serializedOrdersList;
        var ordersList = new List<Order>();

        var redisOrdersList = await _cache.GetAsync(cacheKey); // Get the cached data

        if (redisOrdersList != null)
        {
            serializedOrdersList = Encoding.UTF8.GetString(redisOrdersList);
            ordersList = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<List<Order>>(serializedOrdersList); // Deserialize the cached data
        }
        else
        {
            ordersList = await _context.Orders.ToListAsync();
            serializedOrdersList = JsonSerializer.Serialize(ordersList);
            redisOrdersList = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(serializedOrdersList);

            var options = new DistributedCacheEntryOptions()
                .SetAbsoluteExpiration(DateTimeOffset.UtcNow.AddMinutes(5))
                .SetSlidingExpiration(TimeSpan.FromSeconds(30));

            await _cache.SetAsync(cacheKey, redisOrdersList, options); // Set the cache with expiration options
        }
        return Ok(ordersList);
    }
}
```
