# Dapper

- Dapper is a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapper) for .NET that simplifies data access and manipulation in relational databases.
- It provides a lightweight and efficient way to interact with databases using plain SQL queries, while still offering some of the benefits of an ORM, such as mapping query results to C# objects.
- Created by Stack Overflow team, Dapper is designed to be fast and easy to use.
- It extends the IDbConnection interface, allowing developers to execute SQL queries and map results to C# objects with minimal overhead.
- Resources:
  - Supports multiple queries
  - Allows choosing static or dynamic objects
  - Supports massive inserts and updates

## Why not a full ORM

- Don't generate SQL queries, only limited queries
- No change tracking, no lazy loading, no caching
- No migrations, no database creation
- No UnitOfWork support

## How to implement

- Install Dapper NuGet package: `dotnet add package Dapper`
- Create a class that implements IDbConnection (e.g., SqlConnection, MySqlConnection, etc.) and use Dapper methods to execute queries and map results to C# objects.
- Write SQL queries as strings and pass them to Dapper methods, along with any parameters needed for the query.
- Use Dapper's `Query` and `Execute` methods to execute queries and commands, respectively.
- The main functionalities are:
  - `Query`: Executes a SQL query and maps the results to a collection of objects.
  - `Parameterize the query`: Use parameters to prevent SQL injection attacks and improve performance.
  - `Map`: Maps the results of a SQL query to a C# object or collection of objects.

## Why to use

- When your focus is on performance and you want to write raw SQL queries
- When read-only data changes frequently and are requested often
- When there isn't state (web applications)
- When the DB isn't normalized
- Important: you can use Dapper and Entity Framework together in the same project. Dapper is not a replacement for Entity Framework, but rather a complementary tool that can be used alongside it.

## Main methods (Also have async methods)

- `Execute`: Executes a SQL command (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) and returns the number of affected rows. Also supports executing stored procedures.
- `Query`: Executes a SQL query and returns the results as a collection of objects. Supports mapping to custom types and handling multiple result sets.
- `QuerySingle`: Executes a SQL query and returns a single object. Throws an exception if no results or multiple results are found.
- `QuerySingleOrDefault`: Executes a SQL query and returns a single object or null if no results are found. Throws an exception if multiple results are found.
- `QueryFirst`: Executes a SQL query and returns the first object in the result set. Throws an exception if no results are found.
- `QueryFirstOrDefault`: Executes a SQL query and returns the first object in the result set or null if no results are found.
- `QueryMultiple`: Executes a SQL query that returns multiple result sets and maps them to multiple objects. Useful for stored procedures that return multiple result sets.

## Parameterize the query

- `Anonymous`: Use anonymous objects to pass parameters to the query.
  Ex:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Product> product;
using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
{
    product = connection.Query<Product>("SELECT * FROM Products WHERE Price > @Price", new { Price = 10 });
}
```

- `Dynamic`: Use dynamic objects to pass parameters to the query.
  Ex:

```csharp
var sql = "SalesByCategory";
using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
{
    var parameters = new DynamicParameters();

    parameters.Add("@CategoryName", categoryName, DbType.String, ParameterDirection.Input);
    parameters.Add("@OrdYear", ordYear.ToString(), DbType.String, ParameterDirection.Input);
    parameters.Add("@RowCount", DbType.Int32, direction: ParameterDirection.ReturnValue);

    connection.Execute(sql, parameters, commandType: CommandType.StoredProcedure);
    var rowCount = parameters.Get<int>("@RowCount");
}
```

- `List`: Use a list of objects to pass parameters to the query.
  Ex:

```csharp
IEnumerable<Product> product;
using (var connection = new SqlConnection(connectionString))
{
    product = connection.Query<Product>(@"SELECT * FROM Products WHERE ProductId IN @ProductIds", new { ProductIds = new[] { 1, 2, 3 } });
}
```
